So in this video we will be talking about the creation of database for this project that is cab booking
system and the library is used in this project and the Java file which will help us to connect this
project with our database.
So I have already created the database, so I will be showing the details of that database.
So the database name is I'll be using use as one.
That was the name of database.
So database has been changed.
So let me show you what are the tables which we have inside this database?
I will be writing queries, short tables.
So these are the tables which we have in our database that there are one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight tables.
Table one is an account which will hold the account and validating details as username and password.
Then there is a customer, then there is an inter cab.
This will hold the details of inter inter city cab booking and inter.
Then there is an intercity.
This will hold the routes and source and destination price and driver for intercity caps and trackable.
All the details of about the intra cab bookings and inter intercity will hold the.
Details about the source and destination for the type of caps.
Then there is a transport will hold the details and booking of that particular user of transport, caps
and transport with all the source and destination drivers and its price for that transport purpose.
Now, let me show you the details or let me first describe each table so that you can understand what
are the number of columns or the columns inside each table.
So.
Describe.
Account.
So inside account we have four things username, name, password, question and answer.
So a question will be a general question and it's answered.
So the question will be the security question.
Now, let me show you the description of our customer table.
So this will be the description of customer.
It will have a user name, ID, type number, name, gender, country, address, phone and email.
This will be the details in our customer table.
Now, let me describe the entire cab.
Table.
So Cap Table will have the username for which the cab has been booked.
The driver name, source and destination the car type car and its type its price.
And for this reference number.
If I similarly describe the.
Inter City table.
So inside this interesting table we will have source, destination type and driver name its price and
car.
So this will be inside the intercity.
Similarly, I can define here and describe the intra.
Cab table.
So it will also have username, drive, source, destination, card, price and reference.
Similarly, if I define the intra.
City.
So we will have source, destination, drive price and car detail inside the stable.
Similarly for the transportation purpose will be using in transport.
So it will also contain the name.
Driver name, source, destination, truck weight of the thing you want it to transport distance and
displace.
Sorry.
Price.
After that, the transport table will contain the details about the driver and price.
So it will have sauce, destination, driver, name, price, truck and distance.
So this is the detail about each and every field or tables which we have in our database.
Let me show you what type of detail which we have already inside our.
These tables.
So select asterisk from table.
First is account.
So inside account we have already one entry that is username.
Name one password and your lucky number is one.
Similarly, I can chose here for select account intercity.
So inside intensity, we have source one to destination one and we have three types of car micro mini
SUV.
And for every car we have different drivers name driver one, driver to driver three, we have different
price for them.
And the car type we have written car one, car two and car three.
Similarly, I can show you the data inside the intra.
Set the table.
It will have only one data record as RC one from Destination one and driver name its price and its car.
Similarly, we have data inside our in.
Transport table.
Transportable from source one to destination one driver name, its price truck name and its distance.
And so these are the details and the description of the tables which we have in our database.
Now what we can do.
Let's move to our NetBeans IDE and I will look at the libraries which we will be using.
So let me image this.
So here is our IED and inside which we have first our project name as cab booking system.
Then there is the source package inside which we have a cab booking system inside which defined we have
defined our classes.
We will be discussing about all of these classes in our next step coming with use.
And then inside the icon section we will have all the icons which B which we will be using to make our
application more attractive.
Now inside the library section, we are having my escort driver, which will help us to connect with
our database and load the required drivers, which will be helping us to retrieve and interact with
the database.
So that purpose we have in this library here, my SQL driver.
After that, there is a RS two XML file.
This file is used here to further better representation of tables.
Uh, during our operations of this project and we are using JDK 17, which is a Java development kit,
and it is compatible with my NetBeans IDE.
So that's why I am using 17th person.
Now let's have a look at this Java class, which will help us to connect with the database which we
have just created or I have already created.
You have to create that.
I have shown you all the description and the properties of that database and the number of tables and
name of tables as well.
So this conduit Java file is defined inside the package cab booking system.
We have imported the Java exploit aspect package which will help us to provide the required method and
classes to connect with our database and perform the operations on the database and can retrieve and
fetch and update the information in our database.
After that, we have defined the public class con inside which we have defined a connection type of
statement connection type of instance C which will help us to create connection with our database and
a statement type of instance.
S which will help us to create any statement or execute any statement on our database tables.
Now we have defined the non parameter constructor for this class that is public on.
Inside the tribe log.
What we are doing is we are executing a statement for name and passing argument.
Now this line will only get executed if you have this library in your library section.
So make sure that that library must be present in your library section.
Otherwise this class.
Not for name is statement will not run through your error that the drivers can't be loaded.
So this method is taking argument from my driver and this will be executed and load all the required
drivers which will help us to connect with the database.
Now we have initialized the instance of C with the help of driver manager get connection.
So Driver Manager is a class provided inside the package JavaScript aspects.
So that's why we have imported JavaScript as strict package.
So we are using its method get connection, which is taking three arguments.
The first argument is the location of our database.
So as I have just shown you that our database name was CVS one.
So I have passed the location for that database that is GBK my SQL CVS one.
So this will access that database.
And after that there is the argument username of our my SQL Command Line client.
So my username was root.
The default username for all the MySQL command line applications is root and the password is also the
same as wrote in a small case letter.
But as I have changed my my SQL password, so I have written here my SQL one, two, three.
If you do not change or didn't change your password, then your password must be our old in a small
case letters.
So you have to write your username and password in these two arguments after that as equals to see Dot
create a statement.
So this we are initializing the statement instance as with the help of connection instance C and using
the method create a statement.
So this will initialize our statement instance and help us to create or execute any statement further
in our remaining classes of this project.
Now, inside the cache block we are handling any type of exception.
If occurs, then we will throw out that exception with the catch block.
So that's the everything we have learned about in this video about this project.
So we have created the database and then we talked about the libraries used in this project.
And at last we have talked about the Condor Java file.
Which will help us to create the connection with our database.
So that's all from this video.